Aid has just started arriving in Gaza
via a us-built temporary floating Pier
the structure is anchored to a beach in
Gaza and has been designed to increase
the flow of Aid into the strip however
the UN has warned that the piia is no
substitute for Aid deliveries via land
which have been severely disrupted at
the Rafa border crossing the un's food
program says the threat of famine has
never loomed larger for gaza's 2.2
million people
explosions and gunshots ring out in the
deserted streets of Rafa the southern
city is the latest focus of operations
of the Israeli
military Israel says hamas's last
remaining Fighters are based in Rafa
along with the group's leaders
responsible for the October 7 terror
attack so it needs to send more troops
there our troops have destroyed several
tunnels and will destroy even more soon
this activity will intensify Hamas is
not an organization that can reorganize
it does not have the reserve troops it
does not have the ability to produce
Munitions it has no supplies the result
is we are cutting it off we are wearing
it
down Israeli tanks have already advanced
deep into Rafa's Eastern outskirts
pushing into residential areas un says
almost 600,000 people taking refuge in
Rafa have now left after Israel took
control of the Gaza side of the Rafa
border crossing supplies and Medical
Services have been
dwindling so food in which in place
already uh in southern Gaza are running
out um I think we're we're talking about
the almost none left food in the market
very soon uh there'll be none left U
medical supplies in the hospitals that
remain in the south
a couple two or three weeks I think to
go perhaps a month eight agencies say a
temporary peer anchored by US
troops and regular airdrops are no
substitute for ground
deliveries Palestinians too have been
calling for the border crossing to
reopen we don't want ships we want the
border crossings to open we want safety
we want official borders those planes as
well with the parachutes they threw food
at us like dogs like Beggars that
doesn't work it falls on people it
brings his
problems with most Aid operations
disrupted due to the Rua offensive and
the humanitarian situation already dire
agencies warned gazin are now facing an
immediate risk of famine
right let's get more from our
correspondent Tanya ker in Jerusalem
Tanya Aid has now started arriving in
Gaza via the US built Pier what
difference will this make to the people
of
Gaza well I think eight agencies is uh
here would say it depends on how much
Aid is arriving through that route and
how it will be uh distributed uh we
already heard us officials saying this
is certainly not a substitute for uh
getting more Aid through the lens
Crossings and also uh you know this is a
very complex procedure just to explain
it a bit um so the the aid and the goods
will arrive in Cyprus they will be
screened uh over there then loaded onto
commercial or military vessels that
bring them to a floating uh dock or
platform and there the pallets will be
brought onto uh uh trucks onto that are
then going onto smaller vessels and we
understand that uh per per truck it
could be uh you know could be five to 15
trucks on one of those smaller vessels
those vessels then will uh shuttle so to
speak uh this Aid and the goods uh to
the a floating Pier uh where they will
then drive over it and then drop it and
there it will be distributed uh by uh
the UN agencies mainly by the world food
program and this is all happening south
of Gaza City now this is of course also
prone to you know weather issues high
seas but also safety issues but again
the pressure remains on Israel
as we've been hearing here from Aid
agencies to let in more Aid through the
land Crossings now Israel says it has no
limits uh on the aid it's letting and it
has opened in the north another crossing
the Western a is crossing the a is
crossing but of course due to the
fighting in the South now the main
Crossing with Egypt is close rafar
there's also the bottleneck between the
North and the South and the UN has said
they have always been accused that they
can't really distribute they're not fast
enough by Israel but un has said you
know they don't have enough fuel at the
moment they don't it's it's unsafe also
to bring the aid uh to people so all of
these factors will play and to see how
this will play out given that most Aid
operations have been disrupted because
of the Rafa offensive what kind of food
is available in Gaza and how do people
get hold of
it well uh we've been talking to people
in the north of Gaza lately and they say
the situation is extremely fluid what
available sometimes uh most of the time
they say canned food is uh available but
it also is at a high price you know and
fresh food is sometimes available but uh
a father said to me on the phone that he
doesn't have any income anymore so he
doesn't know how uh to pay for this so
and then you have the Commodities um
also you know you need cooking gas you
need electricity there's also an issue
with the water as eight agencies have
pointed out so all of this of course
makes it very difficult the internal
food chain in Gaza has broken down and
of course there's heavy fighting going
on people don't simply feel safe you
know to get the food so all of this
comes together we'll leave it there for
the moment but thanks for joining us
today DW's Tanya ker in Jerusalem